cluster-autoscaler/cloudprovider/aws/README.md, before:

# Cluster Autoscaler on AWS
The cluster autoscaler on AWS scales worker nodes within any specified autoscaling group. It will run as a `Deployment` in your cluster. This README will go over some of the necessary steps required to get the cluster autoscaler up and running.

## Kubernetes Version
Cluster autoscaler must run on v1.3.0 or greater.

## Permissions
The worker running the cluster autoscaler will need access to certain resources and actions.

A minimum IAM policy would look like:
```json
{
    "Version": "2012-10-17",
    "Statement": [
        {
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Action": [
                "autoscaling:DescribeAutoScalingGroups",
                "autoscaling:DescribeAutoScalingInstances",
                "autoscaling:SetDesiredCapacity",
                "autoscaling:TerminateInstanceInAutoScalingGroup"
            ],
            "Resource": "*"
        }
    ]
}
```

If you'd like to auto-discover node groups by specifing the `--node-group-auto-discover` flag, a `DescribeTags` permission is also required:

```json
{
    "Version": "2012-10-17",
    "Statement": [
        {
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Action": [
                "autoscaling:DescribeAutoScalingGroups",
                "autoscaling:DescribeAutoScalingInstances",
                "autoscaling:DescribeTags",
                "autoscaling:SetDesiredCapacity",
                "autoscaling:TerminateInstanceInAutoScalingGroup"
            ],
            "Resource": "*"
        }
    ]
}
```

Unfortunately AWS does not support ARNs for autoscaling groups yet so you must use "*" as the resource. More information [here](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/autoscaling/latest/userguide/IAM.html#UsingWithAutoScaling_Actions).

## Deployment Specification

### 1 ASG Setup (min: 1, max: 10, ASG Name: k8s-worker-asg-1)
```yaml
---
apiVersion: extensions/v1beta1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: cluster-autoscaler
  namespace: kube-system
  labels:
    app: cluster-autoscaler
spec:
  replicas: 1
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: cluster-autoscaler
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: cluster-autoscaler
    spec:
      containers:
        - image: gcr.io/google_containers/cluster-autoscaler:v0.5.4
          name: cluster-autoscaler
          resources:
            limits:
              cpu: 100m
              memory: 300Mi
            requests:
              cpu: 100m
              memory: 300Mi
          command:
            - ./cluster-autoscaler
            - --v=4
            - --stderrthreshold=info
            - --cloud-provider=aws
            - --skip-nodes-with-local-storage=false
            - --nodes=1:10:k8s-worker-asg-1
          env:
            - name: AWS_REGION
              value: us-east-1
          volumeMounts:
            - name: ssl-certs
              mountPath: /etc/ssl/certs/ca-certificates.crt
              readOnly: true
          imagePullPolicy: "Always"
      volumes:
        - name: ssl-certs
          hostPath:
            path: "/etc/ssl/certs/ca-certificates.crt"
```

### Multiple ASG Setup
```yaml
---
apiVersion: extensions/v1beta1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: cluster-autoscaler
  namespace: kube-system
  labels:
    app: cluster-autoscaler
spec:
  replicas: 1
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: cluster-autoscaler
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: cluster-autoscaler
    spec:
      containers:
        - image: gcr.io/google_containers/cluster-autoscaler:v0.5.4
          name: cluster-autoscaler
          resources:
            limits:
              cpu: 100m
              memory: 300Mi
            requests:
              cpu: 100m
              memory: 300Mi
          command:
            - ./cluster-autoscaler
            - --v=4
            - --stderrthreshold=info
            - --cloud-provider=aws
            - --skip-nodes-with-local-storage=false
            - --expander=least-waste
            - --nodes=1:10:k8s-worker-asg-1
            - --nodes=1:3:k8s-worker-asg-2
          env:
            - name: AWS_REGION
              value: us-east-1
          volumeMounts:
            - name: ssl-certs
              mountPath: /etc/ssl/certs/ca-certificates.crt
              readOnly: true
          imagePullPolicy: "Always"
      volumes:
        - name: ssl-certs
          hostPath:
            path: "/etc/ssl/certs/ca-certificates.crt"
```

### Auto-Discovery Setup

As of version v0.5.1, docker images including the support for `--node-group-auto-discovery` is not yet published to official repository.
Please checkout the latest source of this project locally and run `REGISTRY=<your docker repo> make release` to build and push an image yourself.
Then, a manifest like below would run a cluster-autoscaler which auto-discovers ASGs tagged with `k8s.io/cluster-autoscaler/enabled` to be node groups.
Please notice that there are no `--nodes` flags passed to cluster-autoscaler in this setup.
 
```yaml
---
apiVersion: extensions/v1beta1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: cluster-autoscaler
  namespace: kube-system
  labels:
    app: cluster-autoscaler
spec:
  replicas: 1
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: cluster-autoscaler
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: cluster-autoscaler
    spec:
      containers:
        - image: <your docker repo>/cluster-autoscaler:dev
          name: cluster-autoscaler
          resources:
            limits:
              cpu: 100m
              memory: 300Mi
            requests:
              cpu: 100m
              memory: 300Mi
          command:
            - ./cluster-autoscaler
            - --v=4
            - --stderrthreshold=info
            - --cloud-provider=aws
            - --skip-nodes-with-local-storage=false
            - --expander=least-waste
            - --node-group-auto-discovery=asg:tag=k8s.io/cluster-autoscaler/enabled
          env:
            - name: AWS_REGION
              value: us-east-1
          volumeMounts:
            - name: ssl-certs
              mountPath: /etc/ssl/certs/ca-certificates.crt
              readOnly: true
          imagePullPolicy: "Always"
      volumes:
        - name: ssl-certs
          hostPath:
            path: "/etc/ssl/certs/ca-certificates.crt"
```

Common Notes and Gotchas:
- The `/etc/ssl/certs/ca-certificates.crt` should exist by default on your ec2 instance.
- Cluster autoscaler is not zone aware (for now), so if you wish to span multiple availability zones in your autoscaling groups beware that cluster autoscaler will not evenly distribute them. For more information, see https://github.com/kubernetes/contrib/pull/1552#r75532949.
- By default, cluster autoscaler will not terminate nodes running pods in the kube-system namespace. You can override this default behaviour by passing in the `--skip-nodes-with-system-pods=false` flag.
- By default, cluster autoscaler will wait 10 minutes between scale down operations, you can adjust this using the `--scale-down-delay` flag. E.g. `--scale-down-delay=5m` to decrease the scale down delay to 5 minutes.
- If you're running multiple ASGs, the `--expander` flag supports three options: `random`, `most-pods` and `least-waste`. `random` will expand a random ASG on scale up. `most-pods` will scale up the ASG that will scheduable the most amount of pods. `least-waste` will expand the ASG that will waste the least amount of CPU/MEM resources. In the event of a tie, cluster autoscaler will fall back to `random`.

Commit message:

cluster-autoscaler: Fix node group auto discovery for AWS not to mix up ASGs from different k8s clusters

cluster-autoscaler/cloudprovider/aws/README.md, after:

# Cluster Autoscaler on AWS
The cluster autoscaler on AWS scales worker nodes within any specified autoscaling group. It will run as a `Deployment` in your cluster. This README will go over some of the necessary steps required to get the cluster autoscaler up and running.

## Kubernetes Version
Cluster autoscaler must run on v1.3.0 or greater.

## Permissions
The worker running the cluster autoscaler will need access to certain resources and actions.

A minimum IAM policy would look like:
```json
{
    "Version": "2012-10-17",
    "Statement": [
        {
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Action": [
                "autoscaling:DescribeAutoScalingGroups",
                "autoscaling:DescribeAutoScalingInstances",
                "autoscaling:SetDesiredCapacity",
                "autoscaling:TerminateInstanceInAutoScalingGroup"
            ],
            "Resource": "*"
        }
    ]
}
```

If you'd like to auto-discover node groups by specifing the `--node-group-auto-discover` flag, a `DescribeTags` permission is also required:

```json
{
    "Version": "2012-10-17",
    "Statement": [
        {
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Action": [
                "autoscaling:DescribeAutoScalingGroups",
                "autoscaling:DescribeAutoScalingInstances",
                "autoscaling:DescribeTags",
                "autoscaling:SetDesiredCapacity",
                "autoscaling:TerminateInstanceInAutoScalingGroup"
            ],
            "Resource": "*"
        }
    ]
}
```

Unfortunately AWS does not support ARNs for autoscaling groups yet so you must use "*" as the resource. More information [here](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/autoscaling/latest/userguide/IAM.html#UsingWithAutoScaling_Actions).

## Deployment Specification

### 1 ASG Setup (min: 1, max: 10, ASG Name: k8s-worker-asg-1)
```yaml
---
apiVersion: extensions/v1beta1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: cluster-autoscaler
  namespace: kube-system
  labels:
    app: cluster-autoscaler
spec:
  replicas: 1
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: cluster-autoscaler
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: cluster-autoscaler
    spec:
      containers:
        - image: gcr.io/google_containers/cluster-autoscaler:v0.5.4
          name: cluster-autoscaler
          resources:
            limits:
              cpu: 100m
              memory: 300Mi
            requests:
              cpu: 100m
              memory: 300Mi
          command:
            - ./cluster-autoscaler
            - --v=4
            - --stderrthreshold=info
            - --cloud-provider=aws
            - --skip-nodes-with-local-storage=false
            - --nodes=1:10:k8s-worker-asg-1
          env:
            - name: AWS_REGION
              value: us-east-1
          volumeMounts:
            - name: ssl-certs
              mountPath: /etc/ssl/certs/ca-certificates.crt
              readOnly: true
          imagePullPolicy: "Always"
      volumes:
        - name: ssl-certs
          hostPath:
            path: "/etc/ssl/certs/ca-certificates.crt"
```

### Multiple ASG Setup
```yaml
---
apiVersion: extensions/v1beta1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: cluster-autoscaler
  namespace: kube-system
  labels:
    app: cluster-autoscaler
spec:
  replicas: 1
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: cluster-autoscaler
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: cluster-autoscaler
    spec:
      containers:
        - image: gcr.io/google_containers/cluster-autoscaler:v0.5.4
          name: cluster-autoscaler
          resources:
            limits:
              cpu: 100m
              memory: 300Mi
            requests:
              cpu: 100m
              memory: 300Mi
          command:
            - ./cluster-autoscaler
            - --v=4
            - --stderrthreshold=info
            - --cloud-provider=aws
            - --skip-nodes-with-local-storage=false
            - --expander=least-waste
            - --nodes=1:10:k8s-worker-asg-1
            - --nodes=1:3:k8s-worker-asg-2
          env:
            - name: AWS_REGION
              value: us-east-1
          volumeMounts:
            - name: ssl-certs
              mountPath: /etc/ssl/certs/ca-certificates.crt
              readOnly: true
          imagePullPolicy: "Always"
      volumes:
        - name: ssl-certs
          hostPath:
            path: "/etc/ssl/certs/ca-certificates.crt"
```

### Auto-Discovery Setup

As of version v0.5.1, docker images including the support for `--node-group-auto-discovery` is not yet published to official repository.
Please checkout the latest source of this project locally and run `REGISTRY=<your docker repo> make release` to build and push an image yourself.
Then, a manifest like below would run a cluster-autoscaler which auto-discovers ASGs tagged with `k8s.io/cluster-autoscaler/enabled` and `kubernetes.io/cluster/<YOUR CLUSTER NAME>` to be node groups.
Note that:
 
* `kubernetes.io/cluster/<YOUR CLUSTER NAME>` is required when `k8s.io/cluster-autoscaler/enabled` is used across many clusters to prevent ASGs from different clusters recognized as the node groups
* There are no `--nodes` flags passed to cluster-autoscaler because the node groups are automatically discovered by tags
 
```yaml
---
apiVersion: extensions/v1beta1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: cluster-autoscaler
  namespace: kube-system
  labels:
    app: cluster-autoscaler
spec:
  replicas: 1
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: cluster-autoscaler
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: cluster-autoscaler
    spec:
      containers:
        - image: <your docker repo>/cluster-autoscaler:dev
          name: cluster-autoscaler
          resources:
            limits:
              cpu: 100m
              memory: 300Mi
            requests:
              cpu: 100m
              memory: 300Mi
          command:
            - ./cluster-autoscaler
            - --v=4
            - --stderrthreshold=info
            - --cloud-provider=aws
            - --skip-nodes-with-local-storage=false
            - --expander=least-waste
            - --node-group-auto-discovery=asg:tag=k8s.io/cluster-autoscaler/enabled,kubernetes.io/cluster/<YOUR CLUSTER NAME>
          env:
            - name: AWS_REGION
              value: us-east-1
          volumeMounts:
            - name: ssl-certs
              mountPath: /etc/ssl/certs/ca-certificates.crt
              readOnly: true
          imagePullPolicy: "Always"
      volumes:
        - name: ssl-certs
          hostPath:
            path: "/etc/ssl/certs/ca-certificates.crt"
```

Common Notes and Gotchas:
- The `/etc/ssl/certs/ca-certificates.crt` should exist by default on your ec2 instance.
- Cluster autoscaler is not zone aware (for now), so if you wish to span multiple availability zones in your autoscaling groups beware that cluster autoscaler will not evenly distribute them. For more information, see https://github.com/kubernetes/contrib/pull/1552#r75532949.
- By default, cluster autoscaler will not terminate nodes running pods in the kube-system namespace. You can override this default behaviour by passing in the `--skip-nodes-with-system-pods=false` flag.
- By default, cluster autoscaler will wait 10 minutes between scale down operations, you can adjust this using the `--scale-down-delay` flag. E.g. `--scale-down-delay=5m` to decrease the scale down delay to 5 minutes.
- If you're running multiple ASGs, the `--expander` flag supports three options: `random`, `most-pods` and `least-waste`. `random` will expand a random ASG on scale up. `most-pods` will scale up the ASG that will scheduable the most amount of pods. `least-waste` will expand the ASG that will waste the least amount of CPU/MEM resources. In the event of a tie, cluster autoscaler will fall back to `random`.
