cluster-autoscaler/FAQ.md, before:

# Frequently Asked Questions

# Basics

### What is Cluster Autoscaler?

Cluster Autoscaler is a standalone program that adjusts the size of a Kubernetes cluster to the current needs.

### When Cluster Autoscaler changes the size of a cluster?

Cluster Autoscaler increases the size of the cluster when:
* there are pods that failed to schedule on any of the current nodes due to insufficient resources.
* adding a node similar to the nodes currently present in the cluster would help.

Cluster Autoscaler decreases the size of the cluster when some nodes are consistently unneeded for a significant amount of time. A node is unneeded when it has low utilization and all of its important pod can be moved elsewhere.

### What types of pods can prevent CA from removing a node?

* Kube-system pods that are not run on the node by default.
* Pods that are not backed by a controller objects (so not created by deployment, replica set, job, stateful set etc).
* Pods with local storage.

### How Horizontal Pod Autoscaler works with Cluster Autoscaler?

Horizontal Pod Autoscaler changes the deployment's or replicaset's number of replicas based on the current
CPU load.
If the load increases HPA will create new replicas, for which there may or may not be enough
space in the cluster. If there is no enough resources then CA will try to bring up some nodes so that the
HPA-created pods have a place to run.
If the load decreases, HPA will stop some of the replicas. As a result, some nodes may start to be
underutilized or completely empty and then CA will delete such unneeded nodes.

### What are the key best practices for running Cluster Autoscaler?

* Do not modify the nodes. All nodes within the same node group should have the same capacity, labels and system pods running on them.
* Specify requests for your pods.
* Use PodDisruptionBudgets to prevent pods from being deleted (if needed).
* Check if your cloud provider's quota is big enough before specifying min/max settings for your node pools.
* Do not run any additional node group autoscalers (especially those from your cloud provider).

### Is Cluster Autoscaler compatible with CPU-based node autoscalers.

NO. CPU-based (or any metric-based) cluster/node group autoscalers, like
[GCE Instance Group Autoscaler](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/autoscaler/), are NOT compatible with CA.
They are also not particularly suited to use with Kubernetes in general.

****************

# Internals

### Are all of the mentioned heuristics and timings final?

No. We reserve the right to update them in the future if needed.

### How does scale up work?

Scale up creates a watch on the api server looking for all pods. It checks for any unschedulable
pods every 10 seconds (configurable). A pod is unschedulable when the Kubernetes scheduler is unable
to find a node that can accommodate the pod. For example a pod can request more CPU that is
available on any of the cluster nodes. Unschedulable pods are recognized by their PodCondition.
Whenever a kubernetes scheduler fails to find a place to run a pod it sets "schedulable"
PodCondition to false and reason to "unschedulable".  If there are any items on the unschedulable
lists Cluster Autoscaler tries to find a new place to run them.

It is assumed that the underlying cluster is run on top of some kind of node groups.
Inside a node group all machines have identical capacity and have the same set of assigned labels.
Thus increasing a size of a node pool will bring a couple of new machines that will be similar
to these that are already in the cluster - they will just not have the user-created pods (but
will have all pods run from the node manifest or daemon sets).

Based on the above assumption Cluster Autoscaler creates template nodes for each of the
node groups and checks if any of the unschedulable pods would fit to a brand new node, if created.
While it may sound similar to what the real scheduler does, it is currently quite simplified and
may require multiple iterations before all of the pods are eventually scheduled.
If there are multiple node groups that, if increased, would help with getting some pods running,
different strategies can be selected for choosing which node group is increased. The default is
random, but other options include selecting the group that can fit the most unschedulable pods,
or the group that will leave the least amount of CPU or Memory available after the scale up.

It may take some time before the nodes from node group appear in Kubernetes. It almost entirely
depends on the cloud provider and the speed of node provisioning.

### How does scale down work?

Every 10 seconds (configurable) Cluster Autoscaler checks which nodes are not needed and can
be removed. A node is considered not needed when:

* The sum of cpu and memory requests of all pod running on this node is smaller than 50% of node
capacity.

* All pods running on the node (except these that run on all nodes by default like manifest-run pods
or pods created by daemonsets) can be moved to some other nodes. Stand-alone pods which are not
under control of a deployment, replica set, replication controller or job would not be recreated
if the node is deleted so they make a node needed, even if its utilization is low. While
checking this condition the new locations of all pods are memorized. With that Cluster Autoscaler
knows where each pod can be moved and which nodes depend on which other nodes in terms of
pod migration. Of course, it may happen that eventually the scheduler will place the pods
somewhere else.

* There are no kube-system pods on the node (except these that run on all nodes by default like
manifest-run pods or pods created by daemonsets).

* There are no pods with local storage. Applications with local storage would lose their
data if a node is deleted, even if they are replicated.

If a node is not needed for more than 10 min (configurable) then it can be deleted. Cluster Autoscaler
deletes one node at a time to reduce the risk of creating new unschedulable pods. The next node
can be deleted when it is also not needed for more than 10 min. It may happen just after
the previous node is fully deleted or after some longer time.

What happens when a node is deleted? As mentioned above, all pods should be migrated elsewhere.
For example if node A is deleted then its pods, consuming 400m CPU, are moved to, let's say, node
X where is 450m CPU available. Ok, but what other nodes that also were eligible for deletion? Well,
it depends. If node B also wanted to move its pods, consuming 350m CPU, to node X then it cannot
do it anymore as there is almost no capacity left. It has to them somewhere else, and it is not sure that
if A had been deleted much earlier than B, during the last 10 min, would always have a place to
move its pods. So the requirement of being unused for 10 min may not be valid anymore for B.
But if another node C, in case of deletion, can move its pods to node Y then it
may still do it, because no one touched Y. So C can be deleted immediately after A, but B may not be
deleted immediately.

Cluster Autoscaler does all of this accounting based on the simulations and memorized new pod location.
They may not always be precise (pods can land elsewhere) but it seems to be a good heuristic so far.

### Does CA work with PodDisruptionBudget in scale down?

From 0.5 CA (K8S 1.6) respects PDB. Before starting to delete a node CA makes sure that there is at least some non-zero PodDisruptionBudget. Then it deletes all pods from a node through the pod eviction api, retrying, if needed, for up to 2 min. During that time other CA activities are stopped. If one of the evictions fails the node is saved and it is not deleted, but another attempt to delete it may be conducted in the near future.

### Does CA respect GracefulTermination in scale down?

CA gives pods at most 1 min graceful termination time. If the pod is not stopped within this 1 min the node is deleted anyway.

### How does CA deal with unready nodes in version <= 0.4.0?

A strict requirement for performing any scale operations is that the size of a node group,
measured on the cloud provider side, matches the number of nodes in Kubernetes that belong to this
node group. If this condition is not met then all scaling operations are postponed until it is
fulfilled.
Also, any scale down will happen only after at least 10 min after the last scale up.

### How does CA deal with unready nodes in version >=0.5.0 ?

From 0.5 CA (K8S 1.6) continues the work even if some (up to 33% or not greater than 3, configurable via flag) percentage of nodes
is unavailable. Once there are more unready nodes in the cluster, CA pauses all operations until the situation
improves. If there is less unready nodes but they are concentrated in a particular node group
then this node group may be excluded from scale-ups.
Prior to 0.5, CA stopped all operations when a single node became unready.

### How fast is Cluster Autoscaler?

Scale up (if it is reasonable) is executed up to 10 seconds after some pod is marked as unschedulable.
Scale down is executed (by default) 10 min (or later) after a node becomes unneeded.

### How fast is HPA when combined with CA?

By default, Pod CPU usage is scraped by kubelets every 10 sec, CPU usage is obtained from kubelets by Heapster every 1 min.
HPA checks cpu load metrics in Heapster every 30 sec, and CA looks for unschedulable pods every 10 sec. So the max reaction
time, measured from the time CPU spikes in the pods to the time CA asks the cloud provider for a new node is 2 min. On average
it should be around 1 min.
The amount of time the cloud provider needs to start a new node, boot it up is measured in minutes. On GCE/GKE it is around 1.5-2 min
however this depends on the data center location and machine type.
Then it may take up to 30 sec to register the node in the Kubernetes master and finalize all of the necessary network settings.

All in all the total reaction time is around 4 min.

************

# Troubleshooting:

### I have a couple of nodes with low utilization, but they are not scaled down. Why?

CA doesn't remove nodes if they are running system pods, pods without a controller or pods with local storage.
Also it won't remove a node which has pods that cannot be run elsewhere due to limited resources. Another possibility
is that the corresponding node group already has the minimum size. Finally, CA doesn't scale down if there was a scale up
in the last 10 min.

### I have a couple of pending pods, but there was no scale up?

CA doesn't scale up the cluster when expansion of any of the node groups (for which it is configured) will not
make the pods schedulable. One of the possible reasons is that the pod has too big requests (ex. 100 cpus) or too specific
requests (like node selector) that cannot be fulfilled with the current nodes. The other reason is that all of the
relevant node groups are at their maximum size.

### CA doesn’t work but it used to work yesterday. Why?

Hopefully it is not a bug in Cluster Autoscaler but most likely a problem with the cluster.

* Check If cluster autoscaler is up and running. In version 0.5 it periodically publishes the kube-system/cluster-autoscaler-status config map. Check last update time annotation. Should be no more than 3 min (usually 10 sec old).
* Check kube-system/cluster-autoscaler-status if the cluster and node groups are in the healthy state. If not, check the unready nodes.

* If you expect some nodes to be deleted but they are not deleted for a long time check:
    * if they contain pods that prevent the node from being deleted (see the corresponding question in the faq).
    * if min/max boundaries you declared for a particular node group allow the scale up.
    * the content of /var/log/cluster-autoscaler.log.

* If you expect some nodes to be added to help some pending pods, but they are not added for a long time check:
    * if the node groups that could potentially accommodate the pods are on their max size.
    * events added by CA to the pod.
    * events on the kube-system/cluster-autoscaler-status config map.
    * if you have quota on your cloud provider side.
    * the content of /var/log/cluster-autoscaler.log.

### How can I check what is going on in CA ?

There are three options:

* Logs on the master node, in /var/log/cluster-autoscaler.log.
* kube-system/cluster-autoscaler-status config map.
* Events:
    * on pods (particularly those that cannot be scheduled).
    * on nodes.
    * on kube-system/cluster-autoscaler-status config map.

### What events are emitted by CA?

Whenever Cluster Autoscaler adds or removes nodes it will create events
describing this action. It will also create events for some serious
errors. Below is the non-exhaustive list of events emitted by CA (new events may
be added in future):

* on kube-system/cluster-autoscaler-status config map:
    * ScaledUpGroup - CA increased the size of node group, gives
      both old and new group size.
    * ScaleDownEmpty - CA removed a node with no pods running on it (except
      system pods found on all nodes).
    * ScaleDown - CA decided to remove a node with some pods running on it.
      Event includes names of all pods that will be rescheduled to drain the
      node.
* on nodes:
    * ScaleDown - CA is scaling down the node. Multiple ScaleDown events may be
      recorded on the node, describing status of scale down operation.
    * ScaleDownFailed - CA tried to remove the node, but failed. The event
      includes error message.
* on pods:
    * TriggeredScaleUp - CA decided to scale up cluster to make place for this
      pod.
    * NotTriggerScaleUp - CA couldn't find node group that can be scaled up to
      make this pod schedulable.
    * ScaleDown - CA will try to evict this pod as part of draining the node.

Example event:
```sh
$ kubectl describe pods memory-reservation-73rl0 --namespace e2e-tests-autoscaling-kncnx
Name:   memory-reservation-73rl0

...

Events:
  FirstSeen	LastSeen	Count	From			SubObjectPath	Type		Reason			Message
  ---------	--------	-----	----			-------------	--------	------			-------
  1m		1m		1	cluster-autoscaler			Normal		TriggeredScaleUp	pod triggered scale-up, group: https://content.googleapis.com/compute/v1/projects/maciekpytel-dev-playground/zones/us-central1-b/instanceGroups/e2e-test-maciekpytel-minion-group, sizes (current/new): 3/4
```

### What happens in scale up when I have no more quota in the cloud provider?

Scale up will periodically try to increase the cluster and, once failed, move back to the previous size until the quota arrives or
the scale-up-triggering pods are removed.

# Developer:

### How can I run e2e tests?

1. Set up environment and build e2e.go as described in [Kubernetes docs](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/contributors/devel/e2e-tests.md#building-and-running-the-tests).
2. Set up the following env variables:
    ```sh
    export KUBE_AUTOSCALER_MIN_NODES=3
    export KUBE_AUTOSCALER_MAX_NODES=5
    export KUBE_ENABLE_CLUSTER_AUTOSCALER=true
    ```
    This is the minimum number of nodes required for all e2e tests to pass. The tests should also pass if you set higher quota.
3. Run `go run hack/e2e.go -- -v --up` to bring up your cluster.
4. SSH to the master node and edit `/etc/kubernetes/manifests/cluster-autoscaler.manifest` (you will need sudo for this).
    * If you want to test your custom changes set `image` to point at your own CA image.
    * Make sure `--scale-down-enabled` parameter in `command` is set to `true`.
5. Run CA tests with:
    ```sh
    go run hack/e2e.go -- -v --test --test_args="--ginkgo.focus=\[Feature:ClusterSizeAutoscaling"
    ```
    It will take >1 hour to run the full suite. You may want to redirect output to file, as there will be plenty of it.

A few tests are specific to GKE and will be skipped if you're running on a
different provider.

Please open an issue if you find a failing or flaky test (a PR will be even more welcome).

Commit message:

Cluster-Autoscaler: add more info about cpu-based autoscalers to FAQ

cluster-autoscaler/FAQ.md, after:

# Frequently Asked Questions

# Basics

### What is Cluster Autoscaler?

Cluster Autoscaler is a standalone program that adjusts the size of a Kubernetes cluster to the current needs.

### When Cluster Autoscaler changes the size of a cluster?

Cluster Autoscaler increases the size of the cluster when:
* there are pods that failed to schedule on any of the current nodes due to insufficient resources.
* adding a node similar to the nodes currently present in the cluster would help.

Cluster Autoscaler decreases the size of the cluster when some nodes are consistently unneeded for a significant amount of time. A node is unneeded when it has low utilization and all of its important pod can be moved elsewhere.

### What types of pods can prevent CA from removing a node?

* Kube-system pods that are not run on the node by default.
* Pods that are not backed by a controller objects (so not created by deployment, replica set, job, stateful set etc).
* Pods with local storage.

### How Horizontal Pod Autoscaler works with Cluster Autoscaler?

Horizontal Pod Autoscaler changes the deployment's or replicaset's number of replicas based on the current
CPU load.
If the load increases HPA will create new replicas, for which there may or may not be enough
space in the cluster. If there is no enough resources then CA will try to bring up some nodes so that the
HPA-created pods have a place to run.
If the load decreases, HPA will stop some of the replicas. As a result, some nodes may start to be
underutilized or completely empty and then CA will delete such unneeded nodes.

### What are the key best practices for running Cluster Autoscaler?

* Do not modify the nodes. All nodes within the same node group should have the same capacity, labels and system pods running on them.
* Specify requests for your pods.
* Use PodDisruptionBudgets to prevent pods from being deleted (if needed).
* Check if your cloud provider's quota is big enough before specifying min/max settings for your node pools.
* Do not run any additional node group autoscalers (especially those from your cloud provider).

### Should I use CPU-usage-based node autoscaler with Kubernetes.

No.

### How Cluster Autoscaler is different from CPU-usage-based node autoscalers?

Cluster Autoscaler makes sure that all of the pods in a cluster have a place to run, no matter if
there is any load in the cluster or not. Moreover it tries to ensure that there are no unneeded nodes
in the cluster.

CPU-usage-based (or any metric-based) cluster/node group autoscalers don't care about pods when scaling up 
and down. As a result they may add a node, that will not have any pods, or remove a node, that 
has some system-critical pods on it, like kube-dns. Usage of these autoscalers with Kubernetes is discouraged.

### Is Cluster Autoscaler compatible with CPU-usage-based node autoscalers?

No. CPU-based (or any metric-based) cluster/node group autoscalers, like
[GCE Instance Group Autoscaler](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/autoscaler/), are NOT compatible with CA.
They are also not particularly suited to use with Kubernetes in general.

****************

# Internals

### Are all of the mentioned heuristics and timings final?

No. We reserve the right to update them in the future if needed.

### How does scale up work?

Scale up creates a watch on the api server looking for all pods. It checks for any unschedulable
pods every 10 seconds (configurable). A pod is unschedulable when the Kubernetes scheduler is unable
to find a node that can accommodate the pod. For example a pod can request more CPU that is
available on any of the cluster nodes. Unschedulable pods are recognized by their PodCondition.
Whenever a kubernetes scheduler fails to find a place to run a pod it sets "schedulable"
PodCondition to false and reason to "unschedulable".  If there are any items on the unschedulable
lists Cluster Autoscaler tries to find a new place to run them.

It is assumed that the underlying cluster is run on top of some kind of node groups.
Inside a node group all machines have identical capacity and have the same set of assigned labels.
Thus increasing a size of a node pool will bring a couple of new machines that will be similar
to these that are already in the cluster - they will just not have the user-created pods (but
will have all pods run from the node manifest or daemon sets).

Based on the above assumption Cluster Autoscaler creates template nodes for each of the
node groups and checks if any of the unschedulable pods would fit to a brand new node, if created.
While it may sound similar to what the real scheduler does, it is currently quite simplified and
may require multiple iterations before all of the pods are eventually scheduled.
If there are multiple node groups that, if increased, would help with getting some pods running,
different strategies can be selected for choosing which node group is increased. The default is
random, but other options include selecting the group that can fit the most unschedulable pods,
or the group that will leave the least amount of CPU or Memory available after the scale up.

It may take some time before the nodes from node group appear in Kubernetes. It almost entirely
depends on the cloud provider and the speed of node provisioning.

### How does scale down work?

Every 10 seconds (configurable) Cluster Autoscaler checks which nodes are not needed and can
be removed. A node is considered not needed when:

* The sum of cpu and memory requests of all pod running on this node is smaller than 50% of node
capacity.

* All pods running on the node (except these that run on all nodes by default like manifest-run pods
or pods created by daemonsets) can be moved to some other nodes. Stand-alone pods which are not
under control of a deployment, replica set, replication controller or job would not be recreated
if the node is deleted so they make a node needed, even if its utilization is low. While
checking this condition the new locations of all pods are memorized. With that Cluster Autoscaler
knows where each pod can be moved and which nodes depend on which other nodes in terms of
pod migration. Of course, it may happen that eventually the scheduler will place the pods
somewhere else.

* There are no kube-system pods on the node (except these that run on all nodes by default like
manifest-run pods or pods created by daemonsets).

* There are no pods with local storage. Applications with local storage would lose their
data if a node is deleted, even if they are replicated.

If a node is not needed for more than 10 min (configurable) then it can be deleted. Cluster Autoscaler
deletes one node at a time to reduce the risk of creating new unschedulable pods. The next node
can be deleted when it is also not needed for more than 10 min. It may happen just after
the previous node is fully deleted or after some longer time.

What happens when a node is deleted? As mentioned above, all pods should be migrated elsewhere.
For example if node A is deleted then its pods, consuming 400m CPU, are moved to, let's say, node
X where is 450m CPU available. Ok, but what other nodes that also were eligible for deletion? Well,
it depends. If node B also wanted to move its pods, consuming 350m CPU, to node X then it cannot
do it anymore as there is almost no capacity left. It has to them somewhere else, and it is not sure that
if A had been deleted much earlier than B, during the last 10 min, would always have a place to
move its pods. So the requirement of being unused for 10 min may not be valid anymore for B.
But if another node C, in case of deletion, can move its pods to node Y then it
may still do it, because no one touched Y. So C can be deleted immediately after A, but B may not be
deleted immediately.

Cluster Autoscaler does all of this accounting based on the simulations and memorized new pod location.
They may not always be precise (pods can land elsewhere) but it seems to be a good heuristic so far.

### Does CA work with PodDisruptionBudget in scale down?

From 0.5 CA (K8S 1.6) respects PDB. Before starting to delete a node CA makes sure that there is at least some non-zero PodDisruptionBudget. Then it deletes all pods from a node through the pod eviction api, retrying, if needed, for up to 2 min. During that time other CA activities are stopped. If one of the evictions fails the node is saved and it is not deleted, but another attempt to delete it may be conducted in the near future.

### Does CA respect GracefulTermination in scale down?

CA gives pods at most 1 min graceful termination time. If the pod is not stopped within this 1 min the node is deleted anyway.

### How does CA deal with unready nodes in version <= 0.4.0?

A strict requirement for performing any scale operations is that the size of a node group,
measured on the cloud provider side, matches the number of nodes in Kubernetes that belong to this
node group. If this condition is not met then all scaling operations are postponed until it is
fulfilled.
Also, any scale down will happen only after at least 10 min after the last scale up.

### How does CA deal with unready nodes in version >=0.5.0 ?

From 0.5 CA (K8S 1.6) continues the work even if some (up to 33% or not greater than 3, configurable via flag) percentage of nodes
is unavailable. Once there are more unready nodes in the cluster, CA pauses all operations until the situation
improves. If there is less unready nodes but they are concentrated in a particular node group
then this node group may be excluded from scale-ups.
Prior to 0.5, CA stopped all operations when a single node became unready.

### How fast is Cluster Autoscaler?

Scale up (if it is reasonable) is executed up to 10 seconds after some pod is marked as unschedulable.
Scale down is executed (by default) 10 min (or later) after a node becomes unneeded.

### How fast is HPA when combined with CA?

By default, Pod CPU usage is scraped by kubelets every 10 sec, CPU usage is obtained from kubelets by Heapster every 1 min.
HPA checks cpu load metrics in Heapster every 30 sec, and CA looks for unschedulable pods every 10 sec. So the max reaction
time, measured from the time CPU spikes in the pods to the time CA asks the cloud provider for a new node is 2 min. On average
it should be around 1 min.
The amount of time the cloud provider needs to start a new node, boot it up is measured in minutes. On GCE/GKE it is around 1.5-2 min
however this depends on the data center location and machine type.
Then it may take up to 30 sec to register the node in the Kubernetes master and finalize all of the necessary network settings.

All in all the total reaction time is around 4 min.

************

# Troubleshooting:

### I have a couple of nodes with low utilization, but they are not scaled down. Why?

CA doesn't remove nodes if they are running system pods, pods without a controller or pods with local storage.
Also it won't remove a node which has pods that cannot be run elsewhere due to limited resources. Another possibility
is that the corresponding node group already has the minimum size. Finally, CA doesn't scale down if there was a scale up
in the last 10 min.

### I have a couple of pending pods, but there was no scale up?

CA doesn't scale up the cluster when expansion of any of the node groups (for which it is configured) will not
make the pods schedulable. One of the possible reasons is that the pod has too big requests (ex. 100 cpus) or too specific
requests (like node selector) that cannot be fulfilled with the current nodes. The other reason is that all of the
relevant node groups are at their maximum size.

### CA doesn’t work but it used to work yesterday. Why?

Hopefully it is not a bug in Cluster Autoscaler but most likely a problem with the cluster.

* Check If cluster autoscaler is up and running. In version 0.5 it periodically publishes the kube-system/cluster-autoscaler-status config map. Check last update time annotation. Should be no more than 3 min (usually 10 sec old).
* Check kube-system/cluster-autoscaler-status if the cluster and node groups are in the healthy state. If not, check the unready nodes.

* If you expect some nodes to be deleted but they are not deleted for a long time check:
    * if they contain pods that prevent the node from being deleted (see the corresponding question in the faq).
    * if min/max boundaries you declared for a particular node group allow the scale up.
    * the content of /var/log/cluster-autoscaler.log.

* If you expect some nodes to be added to help some pending pods, but they are not added for a long time check:
    * if the node groups that could potentially accommodate the pods are on their max size.
    * events added by CA to the pod.
    * events on the kube-system/cluster-autoscaler-status config map.
    * if you have quota on your cloud provider side.
    * the content of /var/log/cluster-autoscaler.log.

### How can I check what is going on in CA ?

There are three options:

* Logs on the master node, in /var/log/cluster-autoscaler.log.
* kube-system/cluster-autoscaler-status config map.
* Events:
    * on pods (particularly those that cannot be scheduled).
    * on nodes.
    * on kube-system/cluster-autoscaler-status config map.

### What events are emitted by CA?

Whenever Cluster Autoscaler adds or removes nodes it will create events
describing this action. It will also create events for some serious
errors. Below is the non-exhaustive list of events emitted by CA (new events may
be added in future):

* on kube-system/cluster-autoscaler-status config map:
    * ScaledUpGroup - CA increased the size of node group, gives
      both old and new group size.
    * ScaleDownEmpty - CA removed a node with no pods running on it (except
      system pods found on all nodes).
    * ScaleDown - CA decided to remove a node with some pods running on it.
      Event includes names of all pods that will be rescheduled to drain the
      node.
* on nodes:
    * ScaleDown - CA is scaling down the node. Multiple ScaleDown events may be
      recorded on the node, describing status of scale down operation.
    * ScaleDownFailed - CA tried to remove the node, but failed. The event
      includes error message.
* on pods:
    * TriggeredScaleUp - CA decided to scale up cluster to make place for this
      pod.
    * NotTriggerScaleUp - CA couldn't find node group that can be scaled up to
      make this pod schedulable.
    * ScaleDown - CA will try to evict this pod as part of draining the node.

Example event:
```sh
$ kubectl describe pods memory-reservation-73rl0 --namespace e2e-tests-autoscaling-kncnx
Name:   memory-reservation-73rl0

...

Events:
  FirstSeen	LastSeen	Count	From			SubObjectPath	Type		Reason			Message
  ---------	--------	-----	----			-------------	--------	------			-------
  1m		1m		1	cluster-autoscaler			Normal		TriggeredScaleUp	pod triggered scale-up, group: https://content.googleapis.com/compute/v1/projects/maciekpytel-dev-playground/zones/us-central1-b/instanceGroups/e2e-test-maciekpytel-minion-group, sizes (current/new): 3/4
```

### What happens in scale up when I have no more quota in the cloud provider?

Scale up will periodically try to increase the cluster and, once failed, move back to the previous size until the quota arrives or
the scale-up-triggering pods are removed.

# Developer:

### How can I run e2e tests?

1. Set up environment and build e2e.go as described in [Kubernetes docs](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/contributors/devel/e2e-tests.md#building-and-running-the-tests).
2. Set up the following env variables:
    ```sh
    export KUBE_AUTOSCALER_MIN_NODES=3
    export KUBE_AUTOSCALER_MAX_NODES=5
    export KUBE_ENABLE_CLUSTER_AUTOSCALER=true
    ```
    This is the minimum number of nodes required for all e2e tests to pass. The tests should also pass if you set higher quota.
3. Run `go run hack/e2e.go -- -v --up` to bring up your cluster.
4. SSH to the master node and edit `/etc/kubernetes/manifests/cluster-autoscaler.manifest` (you will need sudo for this).
    * If you want to test your custom changes set `image` to point at your own CA image.
    * Make sure `--scale-down-enabled` parameter in `command` is set to `true`.
5. Run CA tests with:
    ```sh
    go run hack/e2e.go -- -v --test --test_args="--ginkgo.focus=\[Feature:ClusterSizeAutoscaling"
    ```
    It will take >1 hour to run the full suite. You may want to redirect output to file, as there will be plenty of it.

A few tests are specific to GKE and will be skipped if you're running on a
different provider.

Please open an issue if you find a failing or flaky test (a PR will be even more welcome).
